# Motivation
Twitter allows the user to browse the trending tweets corresponding to celebrities, key politicians and iconic sportsmen. Our vision for the corpus is consolidated around the similar grounds: we try to identify the central entity in news articles in the film section. The central entity of an article is the most important named entity that shows the main topic. The news articles used in this corpus were written by a diverse range of journalists and not a single person in particular. This allows us to work with different writing styles and explore a diverse range of semantic and syntactic information as well.  This corpus can be used to train machine learning models to identify central entities in a given piece of information across various online platforms, which help us not only to categorize information better, but also to make information retrieval more efficient.

# Data Source
The data is collected from [**The Guardian Open Platform**](https://open-platform.theguardian.com/). The Open Platform is a public web service that provides access to all the content generated by The Guardian. The Guardian, originally founded as The Manchester Guardian, back in 1821, is a British Daily Newspaper. As a news platform, it contains humongous amounts of text data that can be used to facilitate advanced research in the field of computational linguistics. To get access to its data, the Open Platform caters an application programming interface that contains articles, videos, images dating back to 1999. Easy access to a large amount of data (1.9 million content pieces) coupled with an easy to work-with API makes it a good option to get started on building this corpus.

# Corpus Collection and Annotation
The corpus includes 500 news articles that are less than 500 words from the film section of the Guardian in year 2021. Each article includes the title and main body of the text. Annotators identified the central entity and the type of the central entity by looking through the title and main text. The four predefined types are: film, performer, film-crew, and others. Every article was annotated by two annotators and any disagreement was manually resolved in the final version of the corpus.